Launch week 5 blog post (#8301)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2022-08-15-launch-week-five-cli-v1-and-admin-api-beta.mdx

---
title: 'Launch Week 5: CLI v1 and Admin API beta'
description: We are moving Supabase CLI v1 out of beta, and releasing Admin API beta.

> author: soedirgo, qiao

Reviewer: @sweatybridge you'll need to add an entry to https://github.com/supabase/supabase/blob/master/apps/www/lib/authors.json and it also looks like this only works as comma separated with spaces:
```suggestion
author: soedirgo,qiao
```

image: lw5-cli/thumbnail.jpg
thumb: lw5-cli/thumbnail.jpg
tags:
  - launch-week
date: '2022-08-15'
toc_depth: 3
---

# LW5: CLI v1 and Admin API beta

Today we are moving the Supabase CLI v1 out of beta. The Supabase CLI is capable of managing database migrations and generating TypeScript types. Follow these [install instructions](https://github.com/supabase/cli#getting-started) to get started.

> In addition, we are also announcing the Admin API beta. The Admin API is a REST API that allows you to manage organizations, projects, Edge Functions, and more. You can read the [docs](https://www.notion.so/Docs-ca2dbdd3f4954da49132d44bead83f1e) or interact with the Admin API from the Supabase CLI v1.

Reviewer: Need to update the docs link

## Manage organizations, projects, Edge Functions, and more

If you’ve used [Supabase Edge Functions](https://supabase.com/blog/2022/03/31/supabase-edge-functions#quickstart), you’ve used the Supabase CLI. We’re extending it to let you manage organizations and projects.

```bash
supabase login
supabase orgs list
supabase projects create my-project --org-id cool-green-pqdr0qc --db-password ******** --region us-east-1
```

> Once created, link your Supabase project locally to begin development.

Reviewer: What does "created" refer to here?

Author: it refers to a new supabase projected. rephrased

```

You can also [call the Admin API endpoint directly](#admin-api) to create a project.

View the [Supabase CLI docs](https://supabase.com/new-docs/reference/cli) for the full list of available commands.

## Schema migrations

You asked for more database migration support, and we listened. We’ve made improvements to manually-written migrations and auto generated schema diffs.

### Schema diff-ing

Previously we supported schema diff-ing using PgAdmin. We found that the tool did not account for default privileges when generating role grants. This leads to verbose statements when diff-ing complex schema changes.

To improve the usability of `db diff` command, we are introducing another tool, [migra](https://github.com/djrobstep/migra), via the `--use-migra` experimental flag. We found that `migra` runs faster and produces more concise DDL statements. While the generated scripts are [not perfect](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-cli#migrations), we hope this tool helps you iterate quicker on your migration scripts.

```bash
$ supabase db diff --use-migra --file file_name
# Creates a DDL script: supabase/migrations/<datetime_string>_file_name.sql
```

> Running the above command diffs the `public` schema of your local development database against a fresh shadow database. You may specify other schema by passing in the `--schema` flag multiple times or as a comma separate list. More details in our [migration guide](https://www.notion.so/Guide-local-staging-prod-workflow-b6666956d5b6432ebf1126e2b98d76c7).

Reviewer: Need to update the docs link

In the long-term we hope to consolidate on a single diff-ing tool which is perfect, but diff-ing is hard so we would need your help and feedback to improve tooling.

### Manual migrations

For manual migrations, you can now test them out locally without the fear of losing unsaved data. Run the following commands to clone your local database to a new branch.

```bash
supabase db branch new my_branch
supabase db branch switch my_branch
```

Now you can run any DDL statements from Studio UI’s SQL Editor. To undo the changes, simply switch back and delete the new branch.

```bash
supabase db branch switch main
supabase db branch delete my_branch
```

## CI / CD

> Automating migrations and tests on your CI / CD pipeline gives developers more confidence that each PR contains a working migration script. CLI v1 focuses on both local and [GitHub Action](https://github.com/supabase/setup-cli) support for the following workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automating migrations and tests on your CI / CD pipeline gives developers more confidence that each PR contains a working migration script. CLI v1 focuses on both local and [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/supabase/setup-cli) support for the following workflows.
```

> Testing all migrations on a fresh local database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test all migrations on a fresh local database:
```

```bash
supabase init
supabase start
```

> Releasing schema changes to staging and production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release schema changes to staging and production:
```

```bash
$ supabase link --project-ref <project-id>
$ supabase db push
```

We created an [example project](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-action-example) showing how to set up GitHub Actions to test and migrate with Supabase CLI v1.

## Type generation

You can now generate TypeScript types using the CLI:

```bash
# in a project set up with the CLI:
supabase gen types typescript --local
supabase gen types typescript --db-url $SUPABASE_DB_URL
```

Of course, the types aren’t very useful on its own, you need some way to consume it. For that, stay tuned for tomorrow! 😉

# Admin API

> The CLI is the first consumer of our new admin API. Over the next few weeks, we’ll be adding all the endpoints needed to programmatically add, remove, and update your Supabase projects. This is ideal for CI/CD workflows and spinning up test environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CLI is the first consumer of our new Admin API. Over the next few weeks, we’ll be adding all the endpoints needed to programmatically add, remove, and update your Supabase projects. This is ideal for CI/CD workflows and spinning up test environments.
```

> Here’s an example of how you can deploy a new project from the command line, you can generate your access tokens from [Supabase dashboard](https://app.supabase.com/account/tokens).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here’s an example of deploying a new project from the command line (generate your access token from the [Supabase Dashboard](https://app.supabase.com/account/tokens)).
```

```bash
curl 'https://api.supabase.com/v1/projects' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <[your-access-token](https://app.supabase.com/account/tokens)>' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"name": "my-project", "organization_id": "cool-green-pqdr0qc", "region": "us-east-1", "plan": "free", "db_pass": "********"}'

# Response JSON:
{
  "id": "abcdefghijklmnopqrst",
  "organization_id": "cool-green-pqdr0qc",
  "name": "hello",
  "region": "us-east-1",
  "created_at": "2022-08-12T17:37:11.88819Z"

> }

Reviewer: Can you move the response JSON to its own code block? The copy button for the curl snippet also copies the JSON since it's in the same code block.

<img width="555" alt="Screen Shot 2022-08-14 at 10 07 46 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7026076/184579695-fd93f2f2-4b74-4d98-84d3-b74404c3731d.png">

Author: good idea

```

> Check out the API docs to browse all the functionality added so far.

Reviewer: Might be useful to add a link on `API docs`

> The new API also opens the door to a whole new suite of integrations, including Zapier, Terraform, Pulumi etc. we’re looking forward to seeing how the dev community interacts with these new public endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new API also opens the door to a whole new suite of integrations, including Zapier, Terraform, Pulumi etc. We’re looking forward to seeing how the dev community interacts with these new public endpoints.
```

---

> title: 'Launch Week 5: CLI v1 and Admin API beta'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: 'Supabase CLI v1 and API beta'
```

description: We are moving Supabase CLI v1 out of beta, and releasing Admin API beta.
author: soedirgo,qiao
image: lw5-cli/thumbnail.jpg
thumb: lw5-cli/thumbnail.jpg
tags:
  - launch-week
date: '2022-08-15'
toc_depth: 3
---

> Today we are moving the Supabase CLI v1 out of beta. The Supabase CLI is capable of managing database migrations and generating TypeScript types. Follow these [install instructions](https://github.com/supabase/cli#getting-started) to get started.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today we are moving the Supabase CLI v1 out of beta. The Supabase CLI is capable of managing database migrations and generating TypeScript types. Follow these [install instructions](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/cli/installing-and-updating) to get started.
```

> In addition, we are also announcing the Admin API beta. The Admin API is a REST API that allows you to manage organizations, projects, Edge Functions, and more. You can read the [API docs](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/api) or interact with the Admin API from the Supabase CLI v1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, we are releasing an Admin API (in beta). The Admin API is a REST API that allows you to manage organizations, projects, Edge Functions, and more. You can read the [API docs](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/api) or interact with the Admin API from the Supabase CLI.
```

## Manage organizations, projects, Edge Functions, and more

If you've used [Supabase Edge Functions](https://supabase.com/blog/2022/03/31/supabase-edge-functions#quickstart), you've used the Supabase CLI. We're extending it to let you manage organizations and projects.

```bash
supabase login
supabase orgs list
supabase projects create my-project --org-id cool-green-pqdr0qc --db-password ******** --region us-east-1
```

Once your new Supabase project is created, use the CLI to link it locally to begin development.

```bash
supabase link --project-ref <project-id>
```

> You can also [call the Admin API endpoint directly](#admin-api) to create a project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Remove this in my opinion, it's becoming a distraction to keep mentioning the Admin API

> View the [Supabase CLI docs](https://supabase.com/new-docs/reference/cli) for the full list of available commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
View the [Supabase CLI docs](https://supabase.com/docs/reference/cli) for the full list of available commands.
```

## Schema migrations

You asked for more database migration support, and we listened. We've made improvements to manually-written migrations and auto generated schema diffs.

### Schema diff-ing

Previously we supported schema diff-ing using PgAdmin. We found that the tool did not account for default privileges when generating role grants. This leads to verbose statements when diff-ing complex schema changes.

> To improve the usability of `db diff` command, we are introducing another tool, [migra](https://github.com/djrobstep/migra), via the `--use-migra` experimental flag. We found that `migra` runs faster and produces more concise DDL statements. While the generated scripts are [not perfect](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-cli#migrations), we hope this tool helps you iterate quicker on your migration scripts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To improve the usability of `db diff` command, we are introducing another tool, [migra](https://github.com/djrobstep/migra), via the `--use-migra` experimental flag. We found that `migra` runs faster and produces more concise DDL statements. While the generated scripts are [not perfect](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-cli#migrations), we hope this tool helps you iterate quicker on your migration scripts. Over time (and with your feedback) we hope to improve schema-diffing to cover all edge-cases.
```

```bash
$ supabase db diff --use-migra --file file_name
# Creates a DDL script: supabase/migrations/<datetime_string>_file_name.sql
```

Running the above command diffs the `public` schema of your local development database against a fresh shadow database. You may specify other schema by passing in the `--schema` flag multiple times or as a comma separate list. More details in our [migration guide](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/cli/cicd-workflow#creating-a-new-migration).

In the long-term we hope to consolidate on a single diff-ing tool which is perfect, but diff-ing is hard so we would need your help and feedback to improve tooling.

### Manual migrations

> For manual migrations, you can now test them out locally without the fear of losing unsaved data. Run the following commands to clone your local database to a new branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can test manual migrations locally without data loss using local branching. Run the following commands to clone your local database to a new branch.
```

```bash
supabase db branch switch main
supabase db branch delete my_branch
```

## CI / CD

Automating migrations and tests on your CI / CD pipeline gives developers more confidence that each PR contains a working migration script. CLI v1 focuses on both local and [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/supabase/setup-cli) support for the following workflows.

Test all migrations on a fresh local database:

```bash
supabase init
supabase start
```

Release schema changes to staging and production:

```bash
$ supabase link --project-ref $PROJECT_ID
$ supabase db push
```

We created an [example project](https://github.com/supabase/supabase-action-example) showing how to set up GitHub Actions to test and migrate with Supabase CLI v1.

## Type generation

You can now generate TypeScript types using the CLI:

```bash
# in a project set up with the CLI:
supabase gen types typescript --local
supabase gen types typescript --db-url $SUPABASE_DB_URL
```

Of course, the types aren't very useful on its own, you need some way to consume it. For that, stay tuned for tomorrow! 😉

# Admin API

> The CLI is the first consumer of our new Admin API. Over the next few weeks, we'll be adding all the endpoints needed to programmatically add, remove, and update your Supabase projects. This is ideal for CI/CD workflows and spinning up test environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CLI is the first consumer of our new Admin API. Over the next few weeks, we'll be adding the endpoints needed to programmatically add, remove, and update your Supabase projects. This is ideal for CI/CD workflows and spinning up test environments.
```

Here's an example of deploying a new project from the command line (generate your access token from the [Supabase Dashboard](https://app.supabase.com/account/tokens)).

```bash
curl 'https://api.supabase.com/v1/projects' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <[your-access-token](https://app.supabase.com/account/tokens)>' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"name": "my-project", "organization_id": "cool-green-pqdr0qc", "region": "us-east-1", "plan": "free", "db_pass": "********"}'
```

> The response JSON should have the same fields as the example below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The response JSON will match the example below:
```

---
title: 'Launch Week 5: CLI v1 and Admin API beta'
description: We are moving Supabase CLI v1 out of beta, and releasing Admin API beta.
author: soedirgo,qiao
image: lw5-cli/thumbnail.jpg
thumb: lw5-cli/thumbnail.jpg
tags:
  - launch-week
date: '2022-08-15'
toc_depth: 3
---

> # LW5: CLI v1 and Admin API beta

Reviewer: Don't need this heading anymore with the title in the front matter.
```suggestion
```
